Add concepts guide on graceful shutdown (#468)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/operations/graceful_shutdown.adoc

= Graceful shutdown

> The article https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubernetes-best-practices-terminating-with-grace[Kubernetes best practices: terminating with grace] describes very well, how graceful shutdown works in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The article https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/kubernetes-best-practices-terminating-with-grace[Kubernetes best practices: terminating with grace] describes how a graceful shutdown works in Kubernetes.
```

> Our operators add the needed shutdown-mechanism for all the products that support graceful shutdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our operators add the needed shutdown mechanism for their products that support graceful shutdown.
```

They also configure a sensible amount of time Pods are granted to properly shut down without disrupting the availability of the product.

> If you are not satisfied with the default values, you can set the graceful shutdown timeout as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not satisfied with the default values, you can set the graceful shutdown timeout as follows:
```

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  workers:
    config:
      gracefulShutdownTimeout: 1h # Set it for all worker roleGroups
    roleGroups:
      normal: # Will use 1h from the worker role config
        replicas: 1
      long: # Will use 6h from the roleGroup config below
        replicas: 1
        config:
          gracefulShutdownTimeout: 6h # Set it only for this specific roleGroup
----

> The individual default timeouts are documented in the specific operators at the `Operations -> Graceful shutdown` usage-guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where implemented, the individual default timeouts are documented in the specific operators at the `Operations -> Graceful shutdown` usage-guide.
```

Author: My plan would be to have a (configurable) timeout available in all operators.
But only the supported products will handle the SIGINT or give to chance to trigger a shutdown via a hook.

Reviewer: I was thinking more of the aspect that these docs will be available before we have finished implementing it everywhere.

Reviewer: Or will the default mechanism be available "straight away"? (via the framework)

Author: It will be in 23.11 I would say.
https://docs.stackable.tech/home/nightly/concepts/operations/ already shows
![image](https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/assets/29303194/aea5c6c8-1056-431b-8a16-2380380727b9)
And every product has a disclaimer that graceful shutdown is currenty not supported (excluding trino) e.g. https://docs.stackable.tech/home/nightly/hdfs/usage-guide/operations/graceful-shutdown

Reviewer: Great, thanks!

Author: I just fear we will forget this wording once we have documented it in all operators. But not strong feeling

Our operators add the needed shutdown mechanism for their products that support graceful shutdown.

They also configure a sensible amount of time Pods are granted to properly shut down without disrupting the availability of the product.
If you are not satisfied with the default values, you can set the graceful shutdown timeout as follows:

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  workers:
    config:
      gracefulShutdownTimeout: 1h # Set it for all worker roleGroups
    roleGroups:
      normal: # Will use 1h from the worker role config
        replicas: 1
      long: # Will use 6h from the roleGroup config below
        replicas: 1
        config:
          gracefulShutdownTimeout: 6h # Set it only for this specific roleGroup
----

The individual default timeouts are documented in the specific operators at the `Operations -> Graceful shutdown` usage-guide.

== Kubernetes cluster requirements
Pods need to have the ability to take as long as they need to gracefully shut down without getting killed.

Imagine the situation that you set the graceful shutdown period to 24 hours.

> In case of e.g. an on-prem Kubernetes cluster the Kubernetes infrastructure team wants to drain the Kubernetes node, so that they can do regular maintenance, such as rebooting the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of e.g. an on-premise Kubernetes cluster the Kubernetes infrastructure team may want to drain the Kubernetes node so that they can do regular maintenance, such as rebooting the node.
```

> They will have some upper limit on how long they will wait for Pods on the Node to terminate, until they will reboot the Kubernetes node regardless of still running Pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They will have some upper limit on how long they will wait for Pods on the Node to terminate before they reboot the Kubernetes node, regardless of any Pods that are still running.
```
